docs/featured/galactic02.md, before:

# Virgin [Galactic 02]

As I watched the livestream of [Virgin Galactic]'s second commercial
flight [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=galactic+02+spaceflight), I couldn't
help but wonder what its passengers were seeing out of the windows...

## Looking at the Data

After the flight concluded, I looked up its track log on [FlightAware], curious
to see how the unusual altitudes would be represented.  Not too surprisingly, altitudes
above controlled airspace (i.e., above 60,000' - `FL600`, the "cieling" of "Class A" airspace - where
no clear standard exists for reporting altitudes AFAIK) were just reported as `0` - i.e.,
missing values.

This was pretty clearly represented on their Altitude vs. Speed summary chart:

![AeroAPI Altitude vs. Speed Summary](./230811-Galactic02-AeroApiTrackData.jpg)

Another quickly evident "feature" of the track logs is that it doesn't capture
True Air Speed (TAS), only "Groundspeed".  Even though [SpaceShipTwo] was traveling 
at Mach 3 (through the atmosphere), over the ground she was going pretty slowly...

## Creating the Visualization

Because it was easy to find [SpaceShipTwo]'s "N" (aka "tail") number, being clearly visible in the livestream and
elsewhere across the Internet, formulating the `flightvisualizer` command was a nobrainer.

I opted to use the `--saveArtifacts` option since I realized (see above) that I'd need
to manually insert (a guess at) those missing altitudes above `FL600` which weren't available
in [FlightAware]'s response, in an intermediary step:

```shell
$ fviz tracks --saveArtifacts --flightCount 1 \
  --tailNumber N202VG --cutoffTime 2023-08-10T10:00:00-06:00
```

See the zero altitudes:
```shell
$ cat fvt_VGX3-1691670738-sw-1757p.json | jq -c ".positions[] | {altitude: .altitude, timestamp: .timestamp}" | more
...
{"altitude":448,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:17:07Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:17Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:33Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:51Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:09Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:26Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:44Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:00Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:17Z"}
{"altitude":620,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:22:18Z"}
...
```

After replacing the `0` values with those from an approximation of a parabolic
trajectory of the flight, confirming:

```shell
$ cat fvt_VGX3-1691670738-sw-1757p-withascent.json | jq -c ".positions[] | {altitude: .altitude, timestamp: .timestamp}" | more
...
{"altitude":448,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:17:07Z"}
{"altitude":1500,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:17Z"}
{"altitude":2350,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:33Z"}
{"altitude":2736,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:51Z"}
{"altitude":2858,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:09Z"}
{"altitude":2749,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:26Z"}
{"altitude":2590,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:44Z"}
{"altitude":2037,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:00Z"}
{"altitude":1218,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:17Z"}
{"altitude":620,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:22:18Z"}
...
```

## Launch the Visualization in Google Earth

Once the manual "fixup" of the [AeroAPI] track log was ready, the
visualization could be created & launched into [Google Earth]:

```shell
$ fviz tracks --launch --layers camera,path,vector \
  --fromArtifacts fvt_VGX3-1691670738-sw-1757p-withascent.json
```

Here are some screenshots I took during my visualization:

### Shape of the Path

![Shape of the Path](./230811-Galactic02-GeTrackPath.jpg)

It really was pretty amazing to see the "shape" of - and to be able to look around
while "flying" - the flight path by using the "Path Track" and "Camera Views."

It helped me to get a pretty clear view of the perspective the passengers had from their window.  

### View From The Top

![View From The Apogee](./230811-Galactic02-GeApogee1.jpg)

The view from the apogee didn't match my expectations of "what Earth should look 
like from space," but it certainly was high up enough to give one pause - especially
I imagine if one was _physically there_ - and to end any argument about whether or
not Earth is flat!  ;-)

[Galactic 02]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galactic_02
[SpaceShipTwo]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SpaceShipTwo
[FlightAware]: https://www.flightaware.com
[AeroAPI]: https://flightaware.com/commercial/aeroapi/
[Google Earth]: https://www.google.com/earth/versions
[Virgin Galactic]: (https://www.virgingalactic.com/)

Commit message:

Add image of Galactic02 flightpath to main README, swap out incorrect .kmz file

docs/featured/galactic02.md, after:

# Virgin [Galactic 02]

As I watched the livestream of [Virgin Galactic]'s second commercial
flight [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=galactic+02+spaceflight), I couldn't
help but wonder what its passengers were seeing out of the windows...

## Looking at the Data

After the flight concluded, I looked up its track log on [FlightAware], curious
to see how the unusual altitudes would be represented.  Not too surprisingly, altitudes
above controlled airspace (i.e., above 60,000' - `FL600`, the "cieling" of "Class A" airspace - where
no clear standard exists for reporting altitudes AFAIK) were just reported as `0` - i.e.,
missing values.

This was pretty clearly represented on their Altitude vs. Speed summary chart:

![AeroAPI Altitude vs. Speed Summary](./230811-Galactic02-AeroApiTrackData.jpg)

Another quickly evident "feature" of the track logs is that it doesn't capture
True Air Speed (TAS), only "Groundspeed".  Even though [SpaceShipTwo] was traveling 
at Mach 3 (through the atmosphere), over the ground she was going pretty slowly...

## Creating the Visualization

Because it was easy to find [SpaceShipTwo]'s "N" (aka "tail") number, being clearly visible in the livestream and
elsewhere across the Internet, formulating the `flightvisualizer` command was a nobrainer.

I opted to use the `--saveArtifacts` option since I realized (see above) that I'd need
to manually insert (a guess at) those missing altitudes above `FL600` which weren't available
in [FlightAware]'s response, in an intermediary step:

```shell
$ fviz tracks --saveArtifacts --flightCount 1 \
  --tailNumber N202VG --cutoffTime 2023-08-10T10:00:00-06:00
```

See the zero altitudes:
```shell
$ cat fvt_VGX3-1691670738-sw-1757p.json | jq -c ".positions[] | {altitude: .altitude, timestamp: .timestamp}" | more
...
{"altitude":448,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:17:07Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:17Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:33Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:51Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:09Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:26Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:44Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:00Z"}
{"altitude":0,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:17Z"}
{"altitude":620,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:22:18Z"}
...
```

After replacing the `0` values with those from an approximation of a parabolic
trajectory of the flight, confirming:

```shell
$ cat fvt_VGX3-1691670738-sw-1757p-withascent.json | jq -c ".positions[] | {altitude: .altitude, timestamp: .timestamp}" | more
...
{"altitude":448,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:17:07Z"}
{"altitude":1500,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:17Z"}
{"altitude":2350,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:33Z"}
{"altitude":2736,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:19:51Z"}
{"altitude":2858,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:09Z"}
{"altitude":2749,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:26Z"}
{"altitude":2590,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:20:44Z"}
{"altitude":2037,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:00Z"}
{"altitude":1218,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:21:17Z"}
{"altitude":620,"timestamp":"2023-08-10T15:22:18Z"}
...
```

## Launch the Visualization in Google Earth

Once the manual "fixup" of the [AeroAPI] track log was ready, the
visualization could be created & launched into [Google Earth].

### _See this for yourself!_

- _In order to "see" this visualization for yourself - even without running
the `flightvisualizer` commands described below - just "drag & drop" file named
`fvk_N202VG_230810143103Z-53328Z_camera-path-vector-withascent.kmz` from the
[artifacts](./artifacts) folder into a running
[Google Earth on Desktop](https://www.google.com/earth/versions/#earth-pro)!_

```shell
$ fviz tracks --launch --layers camera,path,vector \
  --fromArtifacts fvt_VGX3-1691670738-sw-1757p-withascent.json
```

Here are some screenshots I took during my visualization:

### Shape of the Path

![Shape of the Path](./230811-Galactic02-GeTrackPath.jpg)

It really was pretty amazing to see the "shape" of - and to be able to look around
while "flying" - the flight path by using the "Path Track" and "Camera Views."

It helped me to get a pretty clear view of the perspective the passengers had from their window.  

### View From The Top

![View From The Apogee](./230811-Galactic02-GeApogee1.jpg)

The view from the apogee didn't match my expectations of "what Earth should look 
like from space," but it certainly was high up enough to give one pause - especially
I imagine if one was _physically there_ - and to end any argument about whether or
not Earth is flat!  ;-)

[Galactic 02]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galactic_02
[SpaceShipTwo]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SpaceShipTwo
[FlightAware]: https://www.flightaware.com
[AeroAPI]: https://flightaware.com/commercial/aeroapi/
[Google Earth]: https://www.google.com/earth/versions
[Virgin Galactic]: (https://www.virgingalactic.com/)
